Sherlock Scenario

Your manager has just informed you that, due to recent budget cuts, you'll need to take on additional responsibilities in threat analysis. As a junior threat intelligence analyst at a cybersecurity firm, you're now tasked with investigating a cyber espionage campaign linked to a group known as Salt Typhoon. Apparently, defending against sophisticated Nation-State cyber threats is now a "do more with less" kind of game. Your Task: Conduct comprehensive research on Salt Typhoon, focusing on their tactics, techniques, and procedures. Utilize the MITRE ATT&CK framework to map out their activities and provide actionable insights. Your findings could play a pivotal role in fortifying our defenses against this adversary. Dive deep into the data and show that even with a shoestring budget, you can outsmart the cyber baddies.

Starting with the MITRE ATT&CK page, which country is thought be behind Salt Typhoon?
ANSWER: China

According to that page, Salt Typhoon has been active since at least when? (Year)
ANSWER: 2019

What kind of infrastructure does Salt Typhoon target?
ANSWER: Network

Salt Typhoon has been associated with multiple custom built malware, what is the name of the malware associated with the ID S1206?
ANSWER: JumbledPath

What operating system does this malware target?
ANSWER: LINUX

What programming language is the malware written in?
ANSWER: GO

On which vendor's devices does the malware act as a network sniffer?
ANSWER: CISCO

The malware can perform 'Indicator Removal' by erasing logs. What is the MITRE ATT&CK ID for this?
ANSWER: T1070.002

On December 20th, 2024, Picus Security released a blog on Salt Typhoon detailing some of the CVEs associated with the threat actor. What was the CVE for the vulnerability related to the Sophos Firewall?
ANSWER: CVE-2022-3236 

The blog demonstrates how the group modifies the registry to obtain persistence with a backdoor known as Crowdoor. Which registry key do they target?
ANSWER: HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

What is the MITRE ATT&CK ID of the previous technique?
ANSWER: MITRE T1112

On November 25th, 2024, TrendMicro published a blog post detailing the threat actor. What name does this blog primarily use to refer to the group?
ANSWER: Earth Estries

The blog post identifies additional malware attributed to the threat actor. Which malware do they describe as a 'multi-modular backdoor...using a custom protocol protected by Transport Layer Security'
ANSWER: GHOSTSPIDER

Most of the domains the malware communicates with have a .com top-level domain. One uses a .dev TLD. What is the full domain name for the .dev TLD?
ANSWER: telcom.grishamarkovgf8936.workers.dev

What is the filename for the first GET request to the C&C server used by the malware?
ANSWER: index.php

On September 30th, 2021, a blog post was released on Securelist by Kaspersky. What was the threat actor's name at that time?
ANSWER: GhostEmperor

What is the name of the malware that this article focuses on?
ANSWER:Demodex

What type of malware is the above malware?
ANSWER: rootkit

The first stage consists of a malicious PowerShell dropper. What type of encryption is used to obfuscate the code?
ANSWER: AES

The malware uses Input/Output Control codes to perform various tasks related to hiding malicious artifacts. What is the IOCTL code used by the malware to hide its service from the list within the services.exe process address space?
ANSWER: 0x220300

